---
layout: post
title:  "IQFA Conference Talk"
date: 2016-11-11
categories: past_event
tags: conference, invited_speaker, quantum_walks
---

The 7th colloquium of the CNRS GDR Quantum Engineering, Foundations and Applications
(IQFA) was held in Telecom ParisTech (Paris), from 16th to 18th November 2016. 

Some related links: [webpage of the Groupe de Recherche](http://gdriqfa.unice.fr/?lang=fr); the [7th IQFA conference webpage](https://iqfacolloq2016.sciencesconf.org/); and [Quantum Technologies scientific roadmap](http://gdriqfa.unice.fr/spip.php?article407).

In this conference, I gave an oral presentation of joint work with Pablo Arrighi and Stefano Facchini, *Quantum walking in curved spacetime: $(3+1)$ dimensions, and beyond*.  

The [slides of the presentation are available here.]({{ site.url }}/assets/presentations/Forets_Quantum_Walking_in_curved_spacetime.pdf)

This is the abstract of the talk:

 > A Quantum Walk (QW) is essentially a unitary operator driving the evolution of a single particle on the lattice. Some QWs admit a continuum limit, leading to familiar PDEs (e.g. the Dirac equation), and thus provide us with discrete toy models of familiar particles (e.g. the electron). We study the continuum limit of a wide class of QWs, and show that it leads to an entire class of PDEs, encompassing the Hamiltonian form of the massive Dirac equation in (3 + 1)-dimensional curved spacetime. Therefore a certain QW, which we make explicit, provides us with a unitary discrete toy model of the electron as a test particle in curved spacetime, in spite of the fixed background lattice. This means that the metric field can be represented by a field of local unitaries over a lattice. Mathematically we have introduced two novel ingredients for taking the continuum limit of a QW, but which apply to any quantum cellular automata : encoding and grouping.  
